Let's go back for a second to the Pageview hit concept that we first
looked at when we were discussing custom dimensions in the last course.
When we send a page view to GA,
we're sending many different types of fields.
When we send an event hit to GA,
were sending all the same fields as we sent in a Pageview hit,
plus event category, event action and usually event label.
Most dimensions in GA are directly mapped from fields in the hit.
Examples of these dimensions are Page, Operating System,
Medium, Event Category and many others that come directly from the hit.
These dimensions appear as the attributes that organized most reports in GA.
Some of the other dimensions in GA are processed from other fields in the hit.
As examples, GA takes the IP address that is
sent in the hit and derives all of the GA dimensions.
GA takes medium and source from the HIT and generates channel dimensions.
The device category dimension is mapped from mobile device branding,
screen size, operating system and other dimensions that are sent in the hit.
The landing page and exit page primary dimensions in
those reports are derived from the page fields sent to GA in the hit.
During the processing phase,
GA also calculates metrics to answer questions at different scopes.
Examples of hits scope metrics for the page include Pageviews and average Time on Page.
If we're talking about Hit Scope for events,
a metric that's calculated is Total Events.
How many times was our video played?
How many times did a user click an off-site link?
Many of our metrics are calculated at Session Scope,
starting with individual hits.
What was the Average Session Duration?
What was the Goal Conversion Rate?
What was the Ecommerce Revenue?
Finally, we have metrics calculated at User Scope.
Most notably the user's metric.
GA can sometimes take the same data points
and process them as both metrics and dimensions.
For instance, we see here on Audience Overview,
Number of Sessions per User appearing as a metric.
If we navigate down to the Frequency and Recency report,
we see that same data used as a dimension,
Count of Sessions with the number of Sessions and the number of
Pageviews at each session count appearing within the report.
As we proceed through the additional reporting features in the next sections,
it will be useful to stay aware of dimensions and
metrics as the most fundamental concept in Google Analytics reporting.
Also know that the timeframe we have selected in
the Google Merchandise Store demo account is January 1st to March 31st, 2018.
So, when you're going through these reports,
you can align the metrics with those that you're seeing in this lesson.